docs: Add doc for WPF migration (#7658)
unoplatform/uno: doc/articles/wpf-migration.md

# Migrating WPF Apps to Web

> This article contains a thorough walkthrough of architecture and implementation considerations for migrating WPF applications to the Web using Uno Platform and WinUI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article covers architecture and implementation considerations for migrating WPF applications to the Web using Uno Platform and WinUI.
```

![A WPF app migrated to the web with Uno platform](Assets\migrated-app.png)

## Introduction

While improvements will continue to be made by Microsoft at the framework level to ensure the compatibility and reliability of your WPF application, it may be desirable to expand its reach. In this hybrid work era, previous assumptions and development decisions which served your customers well become less valid. For instance, applications targeting the Windows platform alone miss out on mobility benefits of the Web. 

> Advancements such as WebAssembly (WASM), a low-level bytecode for the web, have already become a viable, performant way to deliver your modern .NET applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Advancements such as [WebAssembly (WASM)](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/WebAssembly), a low-level bytecode for the web, have already become a viable, performant way to deliver your modern .NET applications.
```

The Uno Platform not only allows you to maximize reuse of C#, XAML, and .NET investments, but also enables your team to naturally leverage their existing skillset. Alongside your existing investments, you may decide to further enhance your app, refreshing aspects to make use of new capabilities in the platform. Regardless, your goal is to consider what role your application will play several years or more into the future. Depending on your scenario, it may make sense to enhance the user interface layout for different form factors. In this article, the primary focus will be on rewriting as little as possible.

> [!TIP]
> Read the UWP/WinUI & Uno documentation first to better understand the capabilities of the platform. 

## Limitations

The vast majority of your codebase will simply "move across". Existing XAML structure, business logic, and view models can simply be reused. You'll need to recompile old code, and won't have access to framework-only APIs. You may encounter APIs that aren't implemented or controls where a subset of the functionality is presently unsupported. Additionally, the following contain substantial enough differences from WPF to require extra research upfront:

> * Navigation

Reviewer: Are these planned sections you haven't added yet? Otherwise they should be linked to other docs (either in the Uno docs or Microsoft docs, as appropriate)

Author: Although we're now linking to Microsoft documentation for these points, I feel they're all good candidates for us to expand on in the future with Uno-tailored documentation.

* Advanced binding functionality with x:Bind
* Specific framework capabilities
* Modern APIs are async only
* Uno has a streamlined set of XAML capabilities for performance reasons

## Understanding beforehand

Along the journey to bring your WPF app to the Web, you should become familiar with the Uno Platform documentation. Your team should thoroughly understand what is supported (and where) before you build a feature around it. Learn about:

> * Get started

Reviewer: Again, these should link out to detailed info (unless you're planning to add these as sections with WPF-specific information)

Author: Done! Thanks

> * Specific framework capabilities

Author: @davidjohnoliver I noticed @robloo published a pretty comprehensive comparison between UWP and WPF. Depending on how @robloo feels about it, maybe we want to link to that [resource](https://github.com/robloo/PublicDocs/blob/master/UWPvsWPF.md) or incorporate it here in the future?

Definitely not trying to be pushy, but what was published there is pretty incredible and would likely be a valuable addition down the road.

Reviewer 2: I'm glad you find it useful! It's licensed CC BY-SA 4.0 so it can be used almost anywhere with attribution. The purpose is to help anyone so I would be happy to see it included in Uno here. Uno is pretty important on my end too and happy to contribute where I can.

Still hoping they take the Segoe Fluent replacement font as well :)

* How-tos and tutorials
* Development deep-dives
* Reference

## Architecture Considerations

### MVVM Libraries

> Several of the popular MVVM libraries like MVVMLite, Prism, and the Windows Community Toolkit implementation have already been ported to Uno. If your existing app leverages something in-house, there's a chance it will just work. All in all, Uno has made significant strides to improve porting MVVM applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Several of the popular MVVM libraries like MVVMLite, Prism, and the Windows Community Toolkit implementation have already been ported to Uno. If your existing app leverages something in-house, there's a chance it will just work. 
```

Removed a sentence that would be fine in a blog post (or a talk), but doesn't really fit in the context of documentation. ('Significant strides' since when? How is this actionable by the reader?)

### Navigation
Apps leveraging Page-based navigation are relatively straightfoward to migrate. If your app has a different navigation stack, there may be additional implementation changes to consider.

### Custom Controls

> One of the strengths of Uno is having access to the same, opinionated set of battle-tested controls that exist on Windows everywhere. For that reason, we reccomend determining whether there is an "inbox" equivalent to your custom controls. Depending on your app's design goals, it may be desirable to switch to UX patterns more accomodative of your users' device categories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the strengths of Uno is having access to the same, opinionated set of battle-tested controls that exist on Windows everywhere. For that reason, we recommend determining whether there is an included framework equivalent to your custom controls. Depending on your app's design goals, it may be desirable to switch to UX patterns more accomodative of your users' device categories.
```

I've never seen the term "inbox" used to mean this, I think the alternative wording would be clearer for most readers.

> There are also controls available from the Windows Community Toolkit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are also controls available from the [Windows Community Toolkit](uno-community-toolkit.md).
```
